# the duality that encarcerares our minds
no matter how far our science go. no matter how complex our society can become. we always will be able to understand only a fraction of this. an oversimplification of the universe. an unidimensional abstraction of the reality.

our minds can't escape this. we have been taught to think this way our entire lives. that can be traced back to the origin of all of our modern problems: the moment our ancestors developed the concepts of "we" and "them". "we are good", so "them are bad". if we are good, "we do right" and "they do wrong". that's the root of the segregation. the seek for power and domination, the very own line that seams the fabric of imperialist capitalism. you can't keep a population under an imaginary border if they don't recognize the outsiders of this border as "the others". our modern society relies on the sureness that we will always try to think in terms of the goodies and the baddies.

but there's a escape. you and me, we do can, indeed, break free from this dichotomy. from this prison of simplicity, but it requires effort. it requires us to not individually create awareness, but collectively understand ourselves as result of our time-space; result of the past actions of our ancestors. know the past -- the true past -- is the key to understand the present, so then we can build a different future.</p>

> the bourgeoisie had and have enforced that we keep fighting each other, so then we never attack them back. our oppressors know their role in this society, and we must learn ours too. it's time to break free from this cage. to burn down the old society, so a new one can be born. rebel. riot. _organize_.