## the brilliantly horror of vim and what I want to build on top

duno if you already have heard of vim. it's the improved version of vi, an old school text editor invented when there were no mouses or something. people apparently like to write code _only_ using the keyboard. I admire it, but I think some choices made on vi/vim are not up to my taste. but before inventing the wheel ~~again~~ let's state what I really like in vim:
* terminal-based. that's odd, and I love odd things. pretty minimalist and yet functional. also, very simple yet tricky to program. neat
* modes. edition mode, normal mode, that's some fucking gourmet shit that I really dig because gives some layers of control. you can edit in parts when using normal mode, and that may be handy for my daily use.
* friendly attempt to teach vim. they got a interactive tutorial pretty cute and straightforward. it didn't keep me interested for long, but I still enjoy the try. Thank you, vim buddies.

ok. beautiful. but what I _don't_ like?
* they use the conservative keyboard. by this I mean no arrow keys, no page up/down or anything. "please keep your hands on the middle of the keyboard during the entire fly, thanks." I don't fit with that.
* not so intuitive _and_ duplicated commands. You may think, "right I committed a mistake, let's undo it *\* press ctrl+z \** _ooops_, I accidentally put the program in somekind of standby mode? *\* sigh \** *\*googles how to come back from that*\*" I mean, that may sound noobie, but I thought it should be intuitive to anyone, right? no one has the obligation to know everything about terminals. at least, if you think so, warn us about that. Also, you can re-undo things by pressing ctrl+r and shift+u. not a big deal, but somewhat upsetting to me, personally.
* not very likely to have a medium-user mode. like, it's specifically designed targeting hippie programmers that want to be 200% productive. ok, again, not a big deal, buuuut, again, doesn't fit me.

"got you. but what do you want to create now, miss miko?" glad you asked, mr. reader. I want to design something more _me_.

first of all, redesign commands with arrows in mind. when on normal mode, hands off the middle. when editing, ok, go default positions of writing. that implies on using the arrows with one hand and all other day-to-day commands, such as delete, insert, etc. all in the other hand. I'm thinking on using the itch.io indie games layout: arrows + z, x, c and v commands. and any close key to them.

second, I would love to keep vim as a interpreted language for plugins, but vim kinda sucks. neovim tried to fix that by using lua and, I mean, lua kinda sucks too. don't get me wrong, there was an significant improvement. but lua still is a dynamic interpreted language, and that opens a lot of margin for irritating errors during runtime. no. I'll use something else. probably not one written by myself, but maybe wren or something on this way.

third, I want to be sure to add some features by default. such as line numbers. and, also, add a confirming message before using :q!, because, you know, ADHD minds aren't trustful.
for now that's it. keep tuned awaiting for the texty (placeholder name while I don't come up with something simple, short, cute and creative). good bye!