## Why python sucks (in my opinion)
First of all, let's say it out loud: I hate python. _Really_ much. Like, a lot. Very deeply too. Mostly because I programmed in it when I was learning basic programming concepts, so I know it relatively well. And I'm writing this article because ~~my friend asked me to~~ I think python is a god-like language, a bit like C, but in contrast, C doesn't have much issues intrinsic to it, but primarily because of its maintainers (and the ABI problems generated by different maintainers). Python's issues, in the other hand, are there because of the language itself, it's design, it's implementation and developers (once there aren't dozens of major python implementations, like C). So here we go:

### Python is strange
Python, and other languages like Ruby and Nim, has this weird paradigm of "readability" that creates really irritating things. First of all, the indentation; something so relative and taste-dependent should not be so important in the implementation of the code. If you already have written a python code in its default IDE and then openned the same code in another code editor and changed it, you know what is pain. If, for some reason, you wrote code using hard tabs instead of spaces, you just have almost completely fucked up your program. Of course, you can (not that) easily revert it, but still it's really bothering have to do it by hand.

Second: it's OOP. I make the [Brian's words](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IRTfhkiAqPw) mine. And I also add some: making every variable an object is needless and sometimes expensive. And I didn't even start talking about performance. All number and string instances having tons of functions attached to them, and copied on every assignment, is really expensive (an int is 24 BYTES!)

And third: the definition of variables. What the fuck, who thinks that this system is useful? You may end overwriting your outer-scoped variables by simply assigning something to it again. An assignment in python is indistinguishable of an namespace definition. And that really sucks. The fact that you need to use `global foo` to access variables of outer scopes is really strange. And most tutorials don't tell you (at least Sololearn didn't to me) that you can use it. This "feature" can lead to very invisible bugs that may destroy your database or something important like that (but let's be honest, you shouldn't be using python to do important things in the first place).

### Python is slow
Python is interpreted, what is not (that) bad by itself, but can lead to a lot of problems. Some like bad habits to new programmers (python is a really bad first language, by the way), such as dynamic typing. It may sound cool and easy but it leads to several problems of runtime assertions and failures, and to slow runtime too. And python is reeeealy slow. Lua is my jam, I know that it has some problems (like being also dynamic typed, only had implemented constants recently and so on), but it at least is really fast. See [this site](https://benchmarksgame-team.pages.debian.net/benchmarksgame/fastest/lua-python3.html) to check it out. Lua is sometimes ~5 times faster and ~7 times cheaper. That's a lot. Holy crab, that's a lot. Why people still use python over lua? I tell you: it's easier to learn (_marromeno também_) and easier to start using it. And other vicious things too, like garbage collector (ask any Java programmer what they think about GC pauses) and exception handling (that by the way Ginger Bill already wrote a [really good article](https://www.gingerbill.org/article/2018/09/05/exceptions-and-why-odin-will-never-have-them) on this topic). And it leads us to the next topic.

### Python is useless
"But hey! I use python to do big numeric calculations with NumPy and do deep learning things with this another module that I have to swap across pip versions and bla bla bla", no. Most "really useful modules" of python are written in C/C++ because python can't handle this. And if you are using a toy language to use this modules, I think it's much more simpler and productive simply use this modules directly, i.e. don't use python. If you need another language to make your own one useful, then your language is not useful. And don't get me wrong, be implemented in another language such Lua and being able to be extended by its host language is different from downloading 2341414 packages to run a single library that only let you draw GUI stuff very slowly (eyes on you, Tkinter). If python depends on code of other languages to not become useless, then it is already useless. It's simple. If I need a rocket to make my car fly to the moon, it's much better simply use the rocket and get rid of the car entirely.

### Python is messy
You may already know that there is 2 types of python programmers: the really antiquate masochists that use python2, and the weirdos that use python 3.x. In what universe a language developer (and by it read "organization or people behind it") would create a language A, then after some years create language B, that is kinda like A but is almost entirely incompatible with, and then say "hey, this old language that you all use will soon be terminated and shut down, please migrate all your code base to this new one". That's horribly cruel and yet comical. I think you all deserved this, actually - the first mistake was use Python. And now, if you want to install some module to your python 2, you need to use `pip2 install foo_bar`. But if you have python3 instead, everything will be just fine, right? WRONG! A lot of modules are not retro-compatible. or forward-compatible. So many times I had really crazy dependency errors while trying to install [pyxel](https://github.com/kitao/pyxel) on my machine. "Oh, your module A needs B, but we can't install it because python3.6 is using B 1.3, and you actually need B 2.7, but B 2.7 may overide the version that python3.6 need". Then you try to install it using the pip of python3.6, but for some reason your system considers `pip` as the python3.9's pip. And then the Dependency Hell of C becomes a new the Dependency Hell in Python. You really like python, dude? My freaking god.

### The end
Python is one of the worst programming languages ever created. End. That's it. There is no "I know that many programmers like and use python" or "python has its place and room to grow". Python is a cancer that destroys everything I love. Please don't use this piece of shit.