## Lowy
Lowy is my programming skills' evolution pinnacle. Its an interpreted, [AOT compiled](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ahead-of-time_compilation), but most importantly it's written ~~in C~~ entirely from scratch. Or it will be ~~it's not that far yet~~. No GCC, no GNU BISON, no LLVM. I want something of a chimera. A child of C, Pony, Pascal and Lua. I want something easy and embeddable like Lua, strong and useful as C, memory and type safe as Pony and Rust, and oldschool and lit as Pascal and Fortran.

I tried a few months ago to implement it, but I decided to put it again in the oven and let it grow a little more. I want to create a real and useful language, not like [Ghost](https://github.com/mateus-md/ghost) or [Bucket](https://github.com/mateus-md/Bucket-1-3), but something truly useful and able to be used in real life for real problems. I want something simple but elegant. Something easy to embedding (easier than Lua) but trustable and smooth as C and Rust. Rust is too hard to me (both for learning and to implement, in the sense of being laborious), Pony is still too yong (they don't have a easy way to get user input, for example) and Pascal and Fortran are too dated. I need something new. I need Lowy.

But I still need to study a little more. Learn how programming languages work, how compilers work, and how I can put all together.

Maybe I'll take a break to work with Lowy later, but who nows when it will get released. ~~Maybe someone can even create something in this way before me?~~. But until I get enough knowledge to bring my child to life, I'll keep it safe in the Ideas Drawer.