## my problem with capital letters (and why i avoid using them)
capital letters were the first form of our characters when talking about the roman-latin alphabet. it originated a long time ago in greece, which in turn was originated from the [etruscan alphabet](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Etruscan_alphabet) and so on until we get in the egyptian hieroglyphs. this beautiful and interesting history you can read [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_Latin_script#Origin).

at some point, people started writing long books, like the bible, so then they started improving and enhancing their set of letters and writing systems in general. for a comparison mater, the interrogation and exclamation marks, comas and dots were not invented until this point. this another story you read [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Letter_case#History).

one of these improvements were the lowercase - or minuscules - letters. they stopped using everything in _capslock mode_ over lowercase because smaller letters are easier to write/paint and to read. JUST TRY TO KEEP TRACK OF WHAT I'M WRITING WITHOUT GETTING LOST. YOU MAY GET USED TO IT, BUT IT'S EXHAUSTIVE. but for a mater of mark start of periods, they kept using uppercase in the first letter. it's fair, and we are already used to _expect_ the beginning of the paragraph start with a capital letter (as you may already noticed that don't occurred in this post). if we keep using this, specially nowadays, with people with ADHD and optic/visual-neurological limitations, we really should use uppercase in every word, so then we (we because I possibly have ADHD) can keep track of where we're reading more easily. Just Read This Path. You Can Fallow It Up Way More Easily In Comparison With The Capslock Path. But This Is Really Hard To Manually Write Or Type. this greater effort is easily noticeable, specially if you already used any chat-based social medias or post-based, like twitter. we don't usually use uppercase. even less usual when typing on a PC.

this usage of capital letters is noticeable specially in ISO language methods, like in german, that you have to put the initial letter of nouns in uppercase, or to differentiate sie (her) from Sie (mr., sr.). or in [toki pona](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toki_Pona), that everything is in lowercase, except for people's names, that start with a capital letter. like _jan Misali_. i'm personally more inclined to use the toki pona approach. and that's why i'm writing this article.

i don't like to use uppercase letters. the only exception is when writing abbreviations or acronyms like PC (personal computer) or ADHD (attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder). but, in general, is way more aesthetics to me use only lowercase. it's easier to type, is smaller, it holds less space in a bitmap character table (potentially almost 50%). if everything in tech were rewritten to get rid of this, we would have 26 leading slots to put any symbol we would like to, parsing would somewhat easier, and so on. the only place i feel capital letters pretty is in greek and roman sculptures. so, counting from now, i'll no longer use them as i was.