## what is so dangerous about "friendly industries"
this is yet another post that may be relatively hard to understand in a distant future due to the fact that it lays on current and dated facts of our constant-changing world. i'm talking about these posts on twitter and other social-medias made by private industries, like google and microsoft/xbox, and national organizations, such as NASA. like [this one](https://twitter.com/Microsoft/status/1565452987698663424), or [this one](https://twitter.com/NASA/status/1565446043201839106), or even [this one](https://twitter.com/Google/status/1565771535939702784)

putting aside the fact that these posts are really _cringe_, they are very harmful in certain ways and i'll tell you why. first of all, it's made for you to interact. i've received tons of post on "technology" recently on my twitter, but they all are bad jokes about how webdev people are stupid and lazy. "lol i just googled my problem and copy-pasted everything from fullstack overflow" and shit like that. i keep ignoring or setting it to "i don't wish to see things like that anymore because it has nothing to do with my interests/with technology" and twitter keeps sending me this. "why?" you may ask. well, because it bothers me. it _upsets_ me. really much. and twitter knows that. it want to make me interact with this to turn it's interaction wheel. it's how the algorithm works. everything on social-medias (and even google and other sites like that) are designed by really smart and well trained robots to keep you interacting. the more interaction, the more views. the more views, the more advertisement. the more ads, the more money. _late capitalism strikes_.

the second problem: it creates the illusion that these companies are your friends. they are human, with human feelings and human intentions. it's pretty common you hear someone saying something like "google wants to", or "amazon likes to". it's our natural tendency to anthropomorphize things. but by doing so, we start forgetting that these same companies are directed by very wealthy and powerful people that want to get even more wealthy and powerful by exploring you. google doesn't "like to create a good environment for they employees", actually google's **shareholders** adopted this tactic to attract more people to work to them and be explored by them. it's all about capital. if you think that netflix likes you, you wont be upset that much when it cancels your favorite show, or increases the subscription price, or anything that companies do. it's all a psychological strategy to keep clients and workers, which in turn keeps the capitalism wheel running.

and the last problem: i'm pretty sure most of the employees (or, more likely, the interns) doesn't like act as a very friendly person (edging the stupidly ingenue) the entire work-time. work as a industry/trademark page administrator may be one of the most underpaid and yet exigent jobs out there. you have to post very frequently, be kind to all types of idiots online, manage hate messages and clients' claims, and so on. and without mentioning the uselessness of this job for a functional society.

that's it for today, dear reader. if you see something on twitter that makes you _go crazy [strange screaming noises]_ do not interact. stop acting as these profiles are actual entities. try to be happy and, if possible, help us tear down the capitalism. _adios!_