## everything bad about league of legends
yes, lol sucks. not as much as [python](/archive/blog/040222), but a considerable amount of suckness. i'll develop every point, but first some caveats: moba games are not a bad genre. it's not quite good, but games like Heroes of The Storm and Battlerite are quite fun to play once in a while (also rip both). other things around of this genre, like pay-to-win, loot boxes, toxic community and so on are not part of the genre, even being common in it. the second caveat: the lore of league of legends is not bad also. i haven't watched arcane, but some friends and people that i respect their opinion said that it's good, so it may be so. the problems with lol are way more fundamental and elementary. so here we go:

### their characters
i'll take the good examples of mobas i mentioned to make contrast with lol. one example is: there are only 3 types of characters in league of legends; strong men, fairy skinny anatomically-incorrect girls, and magic monsters. 90% of all support characters are barbie-girl-like women with very idealized bodies with glittery powers - or goth sometimes like morgana. now, if you take heroes of the storm, you have a fucking sailor with a mutant marine animal in the place of his arm, a damn flying frog and a badass astronaut medic, three dwarves and [zarya](https://heroesofthestorm.fandom.com/wiki/Zarya) from overwatch, and the shit of a giant alien worm. can you notice the difference? of course HotS still have oversexualized female characters, such as [alexstrasza](https://heroesofthestorm.fandom.com/wiki/Alexstrasza) and [whitemane](https://heroesofthestorm.fandom.com/wiki/Whitemane), but they are way more inclusive and diverse in body types and character signs. also, they are deeply creative when compared to the superficiality of lol's characters. the few it has of creative ones are malphite and galio - that are cool just because they are made out of rocks - the remaining ones are pretty whatever cliché common medieval fantasy heroes. highly disappointing.

### rigid, inflexible and beginner-unfriendly strategies
this issue is also present in other games like overwatch, but here it's _greatly exaggerated_. if you enter lol you must understand its over-complicated, unintuitive, half-fan-made strategy system. "you _go jungle_ to farm. you _go bot_ to something. you _go mid_ for another thing". if you just stared playing, you'll have no clue what's going on. specially if you're playing alone, with no help of a savvy veteran player. and, in contrast with the previously mentioned overwatch, you are very unlikely to win if you don't know these rules of gameplay (that, by the way, are never explained in-game. at least when **I** played). and the worst part: if you don't know 'how to play' and you are playing with people that do know, you'll receive hate, bullying _angery_ comments in your chat. competitive players don't care about you evolve, they care about win. actually, these players of esport games only care about winning. what is very bad. games are about fun, be it whatever you want: get jumpscares, be challenged, get perfect at a level, etc.
            
### the everywhere problem with free-to-play games
this one is tricky, because HotS, OW and lol have this problem: loot boxes, slow evolving/level up, toxic chat and competitive/ranked matches. as i said before, these games are well known for their very unpolite players, criminal lucrative systems (really criminal, check [this](https://www.theguardian.com/society/2022/jul/17/uk-will-not-ban-video-games-loot-boxes-despite-problem-gambling-findings)), sick vicious barbaric matches and so on. i really can't understand completely why people get submitted to these kind of suffering. playing to rank up. competition between your simmilars is very unhealthy. when someone wins, someone loses. not because one is objectively better than the other, but because they got, in that moment, the best result. maybe the loser had to stop playing because of an inconvenient, or because they was too anxious or stressed because of previous matches. again, very unhealthy.

i played, like, 3 matches in lol and found it really boring. the only good thing i miss in other games is the relatively good team match, but the rest is very _meeeh_. the funny part is that most people that i know agree that lol sucks, but, for some reason, it keeps making money. well, again, if you are getting entertained with this, go ahead, but be aware of the problems it has. be auto-critic. goodbye.