## B is for Better
Until some time ago I was developing my own language. A VM powered, AOT compiled, embeddable programming language, [Lowy](archive/blog/061221). I tried to create a masterpiece. I still want to create this language, but a lot of things changed since then, including my point of view of things. Specially the way I understand and write code. To be honest, I was almost giving up the idea of giving birth to Lowy. As all my studies and school were completely eating my time and my CPU (aka my brain). I came back to programming a few months ago, and now I'm here once again to say: "I'm doing something better and cooler than Lowy: B++".

You can read further more about what is B++ at its [github repository](https://github.com/mikumikudice/beeplusplus), but in a nutshell, it's a revival of an old programming language, B, the mother of C. It was supposed to be retrocompatible, but we can't do so, once B was developed for the 70's 36-bit mainframes, and nowadays we only use either 32 or 64 bits architectures, so it's becomes a kinda hard to do task. So, instead, I'm reimplementing it as if it was been developed today. So instead of 36-bit integers, there are 32-bit ones; instead of targeting UNIX, it targets Linux; and so on.

Someone did something like that a few years ago, that was [Leushenko](https://github.com/Leushenko/). But they did not _incremented_ it, just reimplemented. I want to do so. Make what C# did to C++, but with B. Make it faster, easier, more mighty!

I loved B right when I heard about it. And I have a heavy and deep memory about it because in the same day I learned about my hero, [Dennis Ritchie](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dennis_Ritchie). I wanted so much to meet him personally, but unfortunately, he passed away in 2011, when I was 8 years old. He's my hero because he's almost exactly what I want to be. He created things that I love, directly or indirectly, like C, Linux (linux does exit because of UNIX), for example. He went to college study Computer Science, Physics and Mathematics, exactly what I want to do too. He's what I want to be!

I didn't meet he in life, so I don't know how he was as a person, as a friend, but I like to think about him as a good man. A really good man, and I'll believe so until the end. That's why I'm creating B++, to honor his memory and his work. To be a pupil of him. To be part of his history. I want to be like him (or even greater than him, if I can). I want to become the hero I think he is to my future children. A great programmer, an OS developer, but first of all, a good man. The man that changed how we do software.